# cs473
Android Mobile Development coure

Here are the main points of lesson 1

Android apps are written in the Java programming language. The Android SDK tools compile your code—along with any data and resource files—into an APK: an Android package, which is an archive file with an .apk suffix. One APK file contains all the contents of an Android app and is the file that Android-powered devices use to install the app. Once installed on a device, each Android app lives in its own security sandbox. The Android operating system is a multi-user Linux system in which each app is a different user. By default, the system assigns each app a unique Linux user ID (the ID is used only by the system and is unknown to the app). The system sets permissions for all the files in an app so that only the user ID assigned to that app can access them. This means, each process has its own virtual machine (VM), so an app's code runs in isolation from other apps. In this way, the Android system implements the principle of least privilege.

App components are the essential building blocks of an Android app. Each component is a different point through which the system can enter your app. Not all components are actual entry points for the user and some depend on each other, but each one exists as its own entity and plays a specific role—each one is a unique building block that helps define your app's overall behavior.There are four components in android applications. These are activity, service, content provider and broadcast receiver.An activity represents a single screen with a user interface. For example, an email app might have one activity that shows a list of new emails, another activity to compose an email, and another activity for reading emails. Although the activities work together to form a cohesive user experience in the email app, each one is independent of the others.In android application, we have to put the details of our main activity class in AndroidManifest.xml file so that it will be visible to the system when the application starts.

Android activity has life cycle which starts from the callback method, onCreate which is called when our application starts. The last callback is onDestroy which is called when our application closes or gets destroyed by the system to clean the memory. The foreground lifetime of an activity happens between the call to onResume() and the call toonPause(). During this time, the activity is in front of all other activities on screen and has user input focus. An activity can frequently transition in and out of the foreground—for example, onPause() is called when the device goes to sleep or when a dialog appears. Because this state can transition often, the code in these two methods should be fairly lightweight in order to 
avoid slow transitions that make the user wait.
